



               SMX and SecureSMX Version 6.2.0 Release Notes
                              August 3, 2026



     CONTENTS:
        Introduction
        Configuration and Reference
        Notable Changes
        Notes
        Upgrading
        Manuals
        Internet Support
        smxid.txt


     Release notes for previous versions of smx can be downloaded from
     the Documentation section of www.smxrtos.com/support.


     Introduction
     ------------

     SecureSMX adds security to SMX RTOS using the Cortex-M Memory
     Protection Unit (MPU). Security features can be disabled by
     setting SMX_CFG_SSMX to 0 in XSMX\xcfg.h and xarmm_iar.inc,
     to use the normal SMX RTOS.

     It is available under a dual license GPLv2 or Commercial at     
     https://github.com/Micro-Digital/SecureSMX.
     Contact support@smxrtos.com to obtain a commercial license.

     This does not include SMX middleware (smxFS, smxNS, etc).

     See Manuals section below for documentation.


     Configuration and Reference
     ---------------------------

     - 3 boards are supported in this release (selected in CFG\iararm.h):

         STMicro STM32F746G-Discovery (Cortex-M7)
         STMicro STM32746G-EVAL (Cortex-M7)
         NXP LPC55S69-EVK (Cortex-M8)

       The Discovery board is low cost, about $50, and usually stocked
       in large numbers at distributors. It is recommended to use this
       board initially if you don't have one of the others.

       For LPC55S69-EVK, disable MW_FATFS in CFG\iararm.h, since we did
       not support FatFs.

     - SecureSMX is enabled by default. To use only SMX features, set
       SMX_CFG_SSMX to 0 in XSMX\xcfg.h and xarmm_iar.inc.
       In the project file Linker options, delete "_mpu" from the name
       of the .icf file to use.

     - XPORT contains porting layers to migrate from popular RTOSes:
         CM CMSIS (minimal to support FatFs)
         FR FreeRTOS
         TX ThreadX
       - Add the files in the respective directory to the App project if
         you are migrating from one of these.
         In CFG\iararm.h enable SMX_FRPORT or SMX_TXPORT (but not _TEST)
       - Test apps under XPORT test the ports and are mainly for our use.
         To run them set SMX_CFG_SSMX to 0 in XSMX\xcfg.h and xarmm_iar.inc
         temporarily. (There is no need to test also with SecureSMX.)
       - SB_ARMM_DISABLE_WITH_BASEPRI is 0 by default (in XBASE\barmm*.*)
         but must be 1 for FRPort. The user should be aware if this option
         is enabled because it can lead to difficult problems, as ISRs
         that are higher priority (lower number) are not prevented from
         running, so critical sections protected by DISABLE/ENABLE will
         not be protected from them. When 0, PRIMASK is used to disable
         interrupts, which is simpler and safer.


     Notable Changes
     ---------------

     v6.2

     - Simplification and cleanup were done to many files, and interrupt
       latency was reduced in the scheduler and handlers in xarmm_iar.s.

     - Eliminated SMX_CFG_MPU_BR_EN option. Now BR is always on in umode
       tasks and off in pmode tasks, which must have sys_code and sys_data
       in their MPAs. This eliminates the need to turn BR on in smx_ISREnter()
       and smx_PendSV_Handler (PSVH(), and to restore it in smx_ISRExit().

     - LSR flybacks fixed in smx_SchedRunTasks() (sched()) to run safe LSRs
       (sLSRs) by returning true to PSVH(), which does an exception return
       to the sLSR with interrupts enabled. The sLSR does an exception call
       back to PSVH() when done.

     - LSR flyback handling changed to greatly reduce worst case interrupt
       latency, which is now only about 65 clocks. Interrupts are enabled
       for nearly all SMX and SecureSMX code.

       - Added an LSR flyback to the end of PSVH() so interrupts can be
         enabled during the PSHV() tail.

       - Moved LSR flybacks down to the ends of the resume and start legs
         in sched() so that interrupts can be enabled for longer in sched().
         Interrupts are enabled before returning to PSVH(), unless a sLSR is
         to run. 

     - PSVH() code simplified and optimized, and main stack pointer (msp)
       corrected to 8-byte alignment for LSRs. msp is 4-byte aligned in PSVH()
       and sched().
 
     - STM32F7: Removed CPU_CACHE_ENABLE(), which also enabled the MPU
       if !SSMX, and moved cache enable calls to sb_HWInitAtMain().

     - SecureSMX User's Guide Appendices D and E added to that explain
       how safe LSR and deferred action code works in PSVH() and sched().

     v6.1

     - Tested with each of the config settings in xcfg.h and a couple
       others disabled, and added/fixed conditionals as needed.

     - Time measurement functions were tested and corrected.

     - Default MPA not loaded into MPU if already. This saves time for
       legacy tasks using the default MPA.

     - Footnote comments were carefully revised in xarmm_iar.s and xsched.c.

     v6.0

     - License changed from Apache v2.0 to dual-license GNUv2/Commercial.

     - Mutex priority promotion/demotion propagation fully implemented.

     - Addition of deferred action function support to allow moving
       TPortal functions to pmode.


     Notes
     -----

     1. Plug blocks (see SecureSMX UG section 8.11) are not currently
        supported by MpuPacker, so the example one is located outside of
        collection blocks in the .icf file.

     2. BSP directories contain subsets of chip vendor HAL releases.
        Download the full releases from their websites and agree to their
        terms. Delete others you are not using and build directories
        under APP.


     Upgrading
     ---------

     If you are upgrading from v4.4, diff xapi.h to see API changes.
     Mostly, default parameter values were added, but some functions did
     have changes. Most of the work was related to ARM-M Memory Protection
     Unit support.


     Manuals
     -------

     SMX RTOS Quick Start -- overview information for all SMX modules
     SMX Target Guide -- processor and tool information
     smx User's Guide
     smx Reference Manual
     SecureSMX User's Guide

     BSP notes for your target are provided in the DOC directory.
     Note that we have not updated all, so there may be a few minor
     inaccuracies or omissions in yours. For example, a few file names
     have changed.


     Internet Support
     ----------------

     Please visit www.smxrtos.com/support periodically, for fixes,
     downloads, and other information. www.smxrtos.com also has helpful
     articles and technical notes.


     smxid.txt
     ---------

     XSMX\smxid.txt documents the version number of SMX as well as the
     version numbers of the tools that are supported. Typically, the
     name of each project file indicates what version was used when
     building your release.
